# dotCross

Brief summary directly from the project's report:

   >"Accessibility in cyber spaces is a topic that has been studied for a long time. Visual impairment is a major threat of accessing information and partaking in a society of the digital era. However, a growing ageing population has brought a new sense of urgency to making our User Interfaces more accessible to visually impaired users. Therefore, accessibility is something that more and more Software Engineers, UX Designers and Web Developers will need to consider in their work in the not too distant future.\
   While there are many assistive technologies that can make life easier, users are often hesitant to adopt unfamiliar technologies or have a reduced capacity to understand how they work. Can there be a way of maximising the accessibility of familiar User Interfaces just by changing the way we design them? Don Norman’s design principles, originally developed for physical objects, have long been highly regarded in the design world for their effectiveness of making things easier to understand and use. Could their implementation help us enhance the accessibility of mobile applications?\
   This project attempts to answer these questions, by presenting a literature review of digital accessibility, Don Norman’s design principles and mobile usability. The current states of Android application development and accessibility practices are discussed. A prototype productivity application implementing Norman’s principles, named dotCross, is developed and evaluated against a competing app of similar functionality, utilising glasses that simulate visual impairment. Finally, an overview of the evaluation results is presented, along with ideas for future work."
